A database is a set of data stored in a computer. This data is usually structured in a way that makes the data easily accessible.

A relational database is a type of database. It uses a structure that allows us to identify and access data in relation to another piece of data in the database. Often, data in a relational database is organized into tables.

Tables can have hundreds, thousands, sometimes even millions of rows of data. These rows are often called records.

Tables can also have many columns of data. Columns are labeled with a descriptive name (say, age for example) and have a specific data type.

A relational database management system (RDBMS) is a program that allows you to create, update, and administer a relational database. Most relational database management systems use the SQL language to access the database.

SQL (Structured Query Language) is a programming language used to communicate with data stored in a relational database management system. SQL syntax is similar to the English language, which makes it relatively easy to write, read, and interpret.

NoSQL is short for “not-only SQL”, but is also commonly called “non-relational” or “non-SQL”. Any database technology that stores data differently from relational databases can be categorized as a NoSQL database.

There are four common types of NoSQL databases that store data in slightly different ways:
A key-value database consists of individual records organized via key-value pairs. In this model, keys and values can be any type of data, ranging from numbers to complex objects. 
A document-based (also called document-oriented) database consists of data stored in hierarchical structures. Some supported document formats include JSON, BSON, XML, and YAML. 
A graph database stores data using a graph structure. In a graph structure, data is stored in individual nodes (also called vertices) and establishes relationships via edges (also called links or lines).
A column-oriented NoSQL database stores data similar to a relational database. However, instead of storing data as rows, it is stored as columns.